[IMP] VoIP: Call queues changes (#12814)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/productivity/voip/axivox/call_queues.rst

Call queues
===========

A call queue organizes and routes incoming calls when all agents are busy, placing callers on hold
in the order they called. This system helps manage high call volumes more efficiently, ensures fair
workload distribution, and provides a more predictable experience for both callers and agents.

This document explains how to configure call queue settings and log into a queue from the Odoo
database.

.. seealso::
   :ref:`Set up on hold music <voip/axivox/music_on_hold>`

Add a queue
===========

To add a call queue in Axivox, navigate to the `Axivox management console
<https://manage.axivox.com>`_. In the left menu, click :guilabel:`Queues`. Next, click
:guilabel:`Add a queue`. From here, set up the call queue.

> - **Name**: The call queue's name. A required field.

Reviewer: Im curious why these are not using :guilabel: formatting, since they are files on the current UI, just like the drop-down options listed below here 🤔

Please make sure use `:guilabel:` markup to identify any text of the interactive user interface: 
https://www.odoo.com/documentation/master/contributing/documentation/rst_guidelines.html#gui-element
```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Name`: The call queue's name. A required field.
```

Call queues
===========

A call queue organizes and routes incoming calls when all agents are busy, placing callers on hold

> in the order they called. This system reduces employee stress, builds customer trust, and ensures
> fair workload distribution.

Reviewer 2: What a strong intro! I like how you're describing the business impact of using call queues and how it helps both the customer and the employees. I made slight edits to focus on observable outcomes without assuming emotional or trust-based impacts unless backed by data. That way, the statement stays grounded and universally applicable.
```suggestion
in the order they called. This system helps manage high call volumes more efficiently, ensures fair workload distribution, and provides a more predictable experience for both callers and agents.
```

This document explains how to configure advanced call queue settings and log into a queue from the

> Odoo database.

Reviewer 2: Are the basic settings detailed in the avivox config doc?

.. seealso::

>    :ref:`voip/axivox/music_on_hold`

Reviewer 2: Let's add a label to this custom link to draw a stronger connection between this doc and the music on hold section

```suggestion
   :ref:`Set up on hold music <voip/axivox/music_on_hold>`
```

To add a call queue in Axivox, navigate to the `Axivox management console
<https://manage.axivox.com>`_. In the left menu, click :guilabel:`Queues`. Next, click

> :guilabel:`Add a queue`. From here, set up the call queue.

Reviewer 2: this is a much better rewrite compared to what was here before! (: The information from other sections were pulled together and everything is organized in a better way!

- **Name**: The call queue's name. A required field.
- **Internal extension**: The extension agents can transfer callers to. A required field.

> - **Strategy**: How calls are routed. This choice should match the company's needs for this call
>   queue. Here are the options:

Reviewer 2: Tweaking for active voice (:
```suggestion
- **Strategy**: How calls are routed. Choose the option that best matches the company's needs for this call
  queue:
```

  - :guilabel:`Call a random agent`: The call is sent to a random agent.
  - :guilabel:`Call agents one after the other`: The call is sent to the next agent in a specified
    order. This order is remembered, and the order does not reset after each call.
  - :guilabel:`Call agents one after the other starting with the first in the list`: The call is
    sent to the next agent in a specified order. This order is remembered, and the order does
    reset after each call.

- **Maximum waiting time in seconds**: How long a customer can wait in the queue before getting
  forwarded to voicemail or a specific agent.
- **Maximum duration of ringing at an agent**: How long an individual agent's phone rings before the
  call gets moved onto the next step in the dial plan. Learn more about :doc:`dial plans
  <dial_plan_basics>`.
- **Static agents**: Agents in the queue who receive calls without logging in.
- **Dynamic agents**: Agents who must log into the queue to receive calls from it.

.. seealso::
   - :ref:`voip/axivox/music_on_hold`
   - :doc:`dial_plan_basics`
   - :doc:`dial_plan_advanced`

Agent connection
================

Agents have three ways to join a call queue:

> #. Static agents connect automatically.

Reviewer 2: What is a static vs dynamic agent? Is this something that an industry expert would know? If so, there's no need to clarify (:

the desired agent's name from the drop-down menu, and click :guilabel:`Connect`.

To manually log a dynamic agent out of a call queue, navigate to the `Axivox management console
<https://manage.axivox.com>`_, and click :guilabel:`Queues` from the left-hand menu. Then, click the
green :guilabel:`Refresh` button at the top of the :guilabel:`Connected agents` column. From here,
click the red :guilabel:`Disconnect` button, and they are immediately disconnected. This can be
helpful in situations where agents forget to log out at the end of the day.

.. image:: call_queues/call-queue.png
   :alt: Call queue with connected agents column highlighted and connect an agent and report buttons
         highlighted.

Report
~~~~~~

Click :guilabel:`Report` to open a :guilabel:`Queue report` page that shows queue activity. This
report includes who connected and when when, as well as what phone calls were handled by the queue.f
This information is showcased on a separate :guilabel:`Queue report` page.

Set the report's date in the :guilabel:`Period` field. To pick a specific date range, use the
:guilabel:`From` and :guilabel:`to` fields. The information can be organized by

> :guilabel:`Event type`(covered below), and :guilabel:`Call ID`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Event type` (covered below), and :guilabel:`Call ID`.
```

To add a call queue in Axivox, navigate to the `Axivox management console
<https://manage.axivox.com>`_. In the left menu, click :guilabel:`Queues`. Next, click
:guilabel:`Add a queue`. From here, set up the call queue.

- **Name**: The call queue's name. A required field.
- **Internal extension**: The extension agents can transfer callers to. A required field.
- **Strategy**: How calls are routed. This choice should match the company's needs for this call
  queue. Here are the options:

  - :guilabel:`Call all available agents`

>   - :guilabel:`Calls the agent who has received the call for the longest time`

Reviewer 3: I know for the most part these are all pretty self explanatory, but do you think it is worth it to explain them a bit? I am thinking specifically this option, since it seems a bit odd to me (does it mean the person who has been working there the longest?)
Totally up to you, but wanted to put it out there.

- :guilabel:`Agent Connection`: number to dial for dynamic agents to log into the queue.
- :guilabel:`Agent disconnection`: number to dial for dynamic agents to log out of the queue.
- :guilabel:`Connected Agents`: name of agents connected to the queue.

The following buttons are also available on the :guilabel:`Queues` dashboard:

- :guilabel:`Connect an agent`: manually connect an agent to the queue.
- :guilabel:`Report`: run a report on the queue.
- :guilabel:`Delete`: delete the queue.
- :guilabel:`Edit`: make changes to the queue's settings.

When agents are connected to the queue, or are live with a customer, they are displayed under the
:guilabel:`Connected Agents` column.

If they are static agents, they **always** show up as connected.

Connect an agent by clicking the orange button labeled :guilabel:`Connect an agent`. Then, select
the desired agent's name from the drop-down menu, and click :guilabel:`Connect`.

To manually log a dynamic agent out of a call queue, navigate to the `Axivox management console
<https://manage.axivox.com>`_, and click :guilabel:`Queues` from the left-hand menu. Then,

> click the green :guilabel:`Refresh` button at the top of the :guilabel:`Connected agents` column.

Reviewer 3: Early line break (under 100 characters)

From here, click the red :guilabel:`Disconnect` button, and they are

> immediately disconnected. This can be helpful in situations where agents forget to log out at the

Reviewer 3: Early line break (under 100 characters)

end of the day.

.. image:: call_queues/call-queue.png
   :alt: Call queue with connected agents column highlighted and connect an agent and report buttons
         highlighted.

Report
~~~~~~

> Click :guilabel:`Report` to open a :guilabel:`Queue report` page that shows queue qctivity. This

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Click :guilabel:`Report` to open a :guilabel:`Queue report` page that shows queue activity. This
```

- :guilabel:`No one is answering`
- :guilabel:`No one is answering, the caller hangs up`
- :guilabel:`Transfer`

> - :guilabel:`Blind Transfer` (when the caller is transferred without interacting with an agent)

Reviewer 3: I can't access this part of the VoIP menu (I was able to log in to the testing database from a tutorial, but I don't want to risk messing anything up since I believe it is being used for a recording soon)
Is this formatting correct for this option? or is the part in parenthesis part of the guilable? If not, I would change this to :

Any or all of the  13 options can be selected from the :guilabel:`Event type` drop-down

> menu. Clicking :guilabel:`Check all` selects all the available options from the drop-down menu, and

Reviewer 3: Early line break (under 100 characters)

.. image:: call_queues/report.png
   :alt: Axivox queue report with result, event type, and period highlighted.

Connect to queue on Odoo
------------------------

Dynamic agents can connect manually to the Axivox call queue from the Odoo **VoIP** widget once the
**VoIP** app is configured for the individual user in Odoo.

To access the Odoo **VoIP** widget, click the :icon:`oi-voip` :guilabel:`(VoIP)`  icon in the
upper-right corner of the screen anywhere in an Odoo database.

.. seealso::
   :doc:`axivox_config`
   :doc:`../voip_widget`

For an agent to connect to the call queue, dial the :guilabel:`Agent connection` number, and then
press the green call button :icon:`fa-phone` :guilabel:`(phone)` icon in the **VoIP** widget. Then,
the agent hears a short, two-second message indicating the agent is logged in. The call
automatically ends.

To view the connected agents in a call queue, navigate to the `Axivox management console
<https://manage.axivox.com>`_, and click :guilabel:`Queues` from the left-hand menu.

Then, click the green :guilabel:`Refresh` button at the top of the :guilabel:`Connected agents`

> column. Any agent (static or dynamic) that is connected to the queue currently appears in the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
column. Any agent, static or dynamic, that is connected to the queue currently appears in the
```

> column next to the queue they are logged into.

Reviewer 3: Early line break (under 100 characters)

To log out of the queue, open the Odoo **VoIP** widget, dial the :guilabel:`Agent disconnection`
number, and then press the green call button :icon:`fa-phone` :guilabel:`(phone)` icon. The agent is

> disconnected from

Reviewer 3: Early line break (under 100 characters)

the queue after a short, two-second message.

> 

Reviewer 3: Extra blank line (can be removed)

- :guilabel:`No one is answering`
- :guilabel:`No one is answering, the caller hangs up`
- :guilabel:`Transfer`
- :guilabel:`Blind Transfer` (when the caller is transferred without interacting with an agent)

> Any or all of the  13 options can be selected from the :guilabel:`Event type` drop-down menu.

Reviewer 2: We type out words smaller than 100 (:
```suggestion
Any or all of the thirteen options can be selected from the :guilabel:`Event type` drop-down menu.
```
